The aim of my project is to discover the patterns of trope usage in movies. Tropes are commonly recurring conventions and devices found within various creative works. It is not difficult to recognize a trope when we see it. We can all recognize the Mad Scientist, the Cowboy Cop, or The Chosen One. Overused tropes will make us roll our eyes, but the tropes themselves are actually essential to storytelling. Quoting from the famous website that collect trope descriptions and examples, http://TVTropes.org, "Tropes are not inherently disruptive to a story; however, when the trope itself becomes intrusive, distracting the viewer rather than serving as shorthand, it has become a cliché." Thus, exploring how tropes are used in creative works can help the audience appreciate the various tropes and their function in storytelling, and more importantly, help the creators identify successful and trending plot devices that they can incorporate in their own works.

The trope data used in this project comes from DBTropes.org, which is a Linked Data wrapper for TVTropes.org. On their website, they host a downloadable snapshot of all data in NTriples format (http://dbtropes.org/static/dbtropes.zip). The dataset gets updated on a monthly basis. From this dataset, I parsed all film titles and the name of the tropes each film has. The film information data (eg. genre, release date, director, IMDB ranking, etc.) is acquired by using the ImdbPie library (https://github.com/richardasaurus/imdb-pie), a Python IMDB client using the IMDB json web service made available for their iOS app.

With these data, I can search for the answers to the following questions:
1. Is there any particular pattern of tropes that makes the film more successful?
2. What are the most popular tropes in each film genre? Are any of the tropes especially helpful for making a good film in certain genres, but not so much for other genres?
3. How has the usage of tropes changed with time? Which tropes are particularly trending now?
4. What makes the "successful" tropes successful? What features are indicative of a trope's quality / popularity?

For exploratory data analysis, I examined the frequencies of tropes in two groups: (A) the "overall group": tropes that appeared in at least one film in the DBTropes database; (B) the "top 250 group": a subgroup of the previous group, consisted of tropes that appeared in at least one film of the IMDB top 250 films. The first attached plot shows the difference of trope frequencies in each group. In these scatter plots, each dot represent a trope. In the left panel, the dot's x value is its frequency among all films, whereas the y value is its frequency among the top 250 films. The dots/tropes above the diagonal line of y = x (teal colored) are more likely to be found in the top 250 films, and the dots/tropes below the diagonal line (red colored) are underrepresented in the Top 250 films

The dots primarily locate around the diagonal line of y = x (meaning these tropes are not overrepresented nor underrepresented in the Top 250 films), but there are some potentially interesting outliers that are far from the diagonal line. In the right panel 
